Get a domain registered.
wasnt able to get free domain so had to purchase one online. https://tld-list.com/
with all domain info at hand next we create our hosted zone by going to route 53 to hosted zone and click hosted zone.
input the domain name, and create public hosted zone.
connect route 53 to domain server
copy route 53 info to domain namen server and change name servers.
splung a load balancer server ubuntu 20.04
create a record and use public if from the load balancer and create a record from route 53 to point to the load balancer.
craete another record for www and still reference to the load balancer ip to connect the 3 together.
connect the load balancer server.
update the server and install the nginx.
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nginx
sudo systemctl start nginx
sudo systemctl status nginx
make sure its active and running.
create configuration for the reverse process setting.
Configure Nginx LB using Web Servers’ names defined in /etc/hosts
sudo vi /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
copy contents and replace domain name with the server name save and exit.
remove default site so the reverse proxy will be redirecting the newly config file
sudo rm -f /etc/nginx/site-enable/default
check make sure sucessfully configured.
sudo nginx -t
enable nginx
cd /etc/nginx/site-enabled/
link load balancer config file to the enabled site.
sudo ln -s ../sit-available/load_balancer.config .
check by using (ll) to show arrow link.
now reload nginx
sudo sytemctl relaod nginx
check website to make sure it tredirects to the webserver.
take screenshot and update.
now presently as seen on top left of website its not secured. so no nest we have to work on making it secured.
install certbot.
sudo apt install certbot -y
install module/dependency the certbot will need.
sudo apt install python3-certbot-nginx -y
sudo nginx -t
sudo nginx -s relaod
make sure test is sucessfully.
now create a domain certificate to secure the domain.
sudo certbot --nginx -d  toolingysf.ga d www.toolingysf.ga
enter email address
A to agree
y for yes
certificate creating and finally created. says ok
choose 2 to redirect all incoming traffic from port 80 to port 443
check website to make sure security is in place.
create crontab assignment so certificatewill be immidiately created upon expiration.
crontab -email
choose appropriate vi
chose month and day of the week
copy and paste
save and exite
since sats wasnt used linking not necessary.
check website. screenshot and update.
